# Shell

The purpose of this project is to design and develop a comprehensive shell interface that enhances process control, user interaction, and error handling mechanisms.

## Group Number
Group 30

## Group Name
The Kernel Trio

## Group Members
- **Dominic Miller**: dgm21@fsu.edu
- **Joab Temotio**: jt21m@fsu.edu
- **Brandon Nascimento**: brn21a@fsu.edu

## Division of Labor

### Part 1: Prompt
- **Responsibilities**: Prompt the user with their directory path by expanding their $USER, $MACHINE, $PWD environment variables.
- **Assigned to**: Brandon Nascimento

### Part 2: Environment Variables
- **Responsibilities**: Replace tokens prefixed with the dollar sign character ($) with their corresponding values.
- **Assigned to**: Brandon Nascimento, Dominic Miller

### Part 3: Tilde Expansion
- **Responsibilities**: In Bash, tilde (~) may appear at the beginning of a path, and it expands to the environment variable $HOME.
- **Assigned to**: Brandon Nascimento

### Part 4: $PATH Search
- **Responsibilities**: When a command like "ls" is entered, the shell is able to execute the corresponding program/executable located at "/usr/bin/ls".
- **Assigned to**: Dominic Miller

### Part 5: External Command Execution
- **Responsibilities**: Now that we have the $PATH Search, we must fork() to create a child process. The child process will be responsible for executing the desired command using the execv() function.
- **Assigned to**: Dominic Miller, Brandon Nascimento

### Part 6: I/O Redirection
- **Responsibilities**: By default, the shell receives input from the keyboard and outputs to the screen. However, with I/O redirection, we can replace the keyboard with input from a specified file and redirect output to a designated file.
- **Assigned to**: Dominic Miller

### Part 7: Piping
- **Responsibilities**: Contrary to regular I/O redirection, piping involves the simultaneous execution of multiple commands, with the input and output of these commands interconnected. This setup allows the output generated by the initial command to be seamlessly passed as input to the subsequent command.
- **Assigned to**: Joab Temotio

### Part 8: Background Processing
- **Responsibilities**: Thus far, the shell has been waiting to prompt for additional user input whenever there were external commands running. Background processing allows the shell to execute external commands without waiting for their completion. However, it is still essential for the shell to keep track of their completion status periodically.
- **Assigned to**: Brandon Nascimento

### Part 9: Internal Command Execution
- **Responsibilities**: Having completed external command execution, the next aspect to address is the implementation of internal commands, often referred to as built-in functions.
- **Assigned to**: Dominic Miller

### Extra Credit
- **Responsibilities**: Description
- **Assigned to**: Dominic Miller, Joab Temotio, Brandon Nascimento

## File Listing
```
shell/
│
├── bin/
│ └── shell
│
├── include/
│ └── lexer.h
│
├── obj/
│ └── lexer.o
|
├── src/
│ └── lexer.c
│
├── README.md
└── Makefile
```
## How to Compile & Execute

### Requirements
- **Compiler**: `gcc` for C/C++

### Compilation
For a C/C++ example:
```bash
make
```
This will build the executable in shell/bin
### Execution
```bash
make run
```
This will run the program in shell/bin

## Bugs
- **No current bugs**

## Extra Credit
- **Extra Credit 1**: [Extra Credit Option]
- **Extra Credit 2**: [Extra Credit Option]
- **Extra Credit 3**: [Extra Credit Option]

## Considerations
[Description]
